Add documentation to use external Redis using mimir-distributed helm chart (#4348)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/helm-charts/mimir-distributed/configure/configure-redis-cache.md

Reviewer: General style comment: we use `we must` / `we can` etc. in here, but most of our other docs use a more direct style.

For example, rather than ``To use Redis, we must disable the built-in Memcached from `mimir-distributed` Helm chart by making sure the cache configuration is not enabled...``, something like ``To use Redis, disable the built-in Memcached in the `mimir-distributed` Helm chart by disabling the cache configuration...``

Example: [histogram configuration page](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/c17da6bac5aa8a7b7fb1c88896f8350f0468d5ac/docs/sources/helm-charts/mimir-distributed/configure/configure-native-histograms-ingestion.md)

Author: Make sense. Thank you for the suggestions.

---
title: "Configure Redis cache"
menuTitle: "Redis cache"
description: "Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir to use external Redis as cache"
---

# Configure Redis cache

> Beside built-in support for Memcached, Mimir also supports external Redis for chunks-cache, index-cache, results-cache and metadata-cache. To use Redis, we must disable the build-in Memcached

Reviewer: [nit] Is there such thing as internal Redis?

```suggestion
Beside built-in support for Memcached, Mimir also supports Redis for the chunks-cache, index-cache, results-cache and metadata-cache. To use Redis, we must disable the build-in Memcached
```

Author: The intention was to highlight the user need to install Redis themselves "external" from mimir-distributed helm chart. But the nit comment makes sense.

> Beside built-in support for Memcached, Mimir also supports external Redis for chunks-cache, index-cache, results-cache and metadata-cache. To use Redis, we must disable the build-in Memcached

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beside built-in support for Memcached, Mimir also supports external Redis for chunks-cache, index-cache, results-cache and metadata-cache. To use Redis, we must disable the built-in Memcached
```

from `mimir-distributed` helm chart by making sure the cache configuration is not enabled. We can explicitly set `*-cache.enabled` to false or remove the whole `*-cache`

> block from values file so that default setting disables Memcached.

Reviewer: There's two options here (explicitly setting `enabled` to `false` or removing the blocks altogether) - is there one we recommend?

> Beside built-in support for Memcached, Mimir also supports Redis for the chunks-cache, index-cache, results-cache and metadata-cache. To use Redis, disable the built-in Memcached
> from `mimir-distributed` helm chart by making sure the cache configuration is not enabled. To disable Memcached either set `*-cache.enabled` to false as shown in the following yaml or remove the whole `*-cache`
> block from values file so that default setting disables Memcached. Removing the whole block is more recommended.

Author: You suggested good things. However,  I adjust thing a bit because this guide is also to be used by people who are installing Mimir for the first time, not necessarily the ones who has had Mimir installed with Memcached beforehand. Therefore the point "disable the built-in Memcached instances deployed by the `mimir-distributed` Helm chart" might not be really accurate. I will commit something like this below, but let me know if you have more things to add.

```suggestion
Besides support for Memcached, Mimir also supports Redis for the chunks-cache, index-cache, results-cache and metadata-cache. To use Redis, deploy Redis instances, disable the built-in Memcached configuration flag in  values.yaml of `mimir-distributed` Helm chart, and then configure Mimir to use Redis.

To disable Memcached, remove any `chunks-cache`, `index-cache`, `metadata-cache` and `results-cache` configuration from your Helm `values.yaml` file. Alternatively, explicitly disable each of the Memcached instances by setting `enabled` to `false`:
```

```yaml
chunks-cache:
  enabled: false
index-cache:
  enabled: false
metadata-cache:
  enabled: false
results-cache:
  enabled: false
```

> Next we have to tell Mimir how to connect to the external Redis. Refer to [configuration parameters](/docs/mimir/latest/references/configuration-parameters/) on available configuration options for Redis. We can use the Redis configuration block in `mimir.structuredConfig` as follows:

Reviewer: Should we link directly to the Redis configuration options here?

```suggestion
Next we have to tell Mimir how to connect to the external Redis. Refer to [configuration parameters](/docs/mimir/latest/references/configuration-parameters/#redis) on available configuration options for Redis. We can use the Redis configuration block in `mimir.structuredConfig` as follows:
```

> Next, configure Mimir to connect to Redis using `structuredConfig` as shown below. Refer to [configuration parameters](/docs/mimir/latest/references/configuration-parameters/#redis) on available configuration options for Redis.

Reviewer: [nit]

```suggestion
Next, configure Mimir to connect to Redis using `structuredConfig`. Refer to [the configuration parameters reference](/docs/mimir/latest/references/configuration-parameters/#redis) for Redis connection configuration options. For example:
```

```yaml
mimir:
  structuredConfig:
    blocks_storage:
      bucket_store:
        chunks_cache:
          backend: redis
          redis:
            endpoint: <redis-url>:6379

>             # and some more configs

Author: Endpoint is the only thing required. I removed that comment to avoid confusion.
